Now defining the size
of the FinTech market
presents the usual challenge of
defining sizes of
any kind of market.
What defines size?
Assets under management,
flows of funds,
valuations of businesses
in a sector of sub sector.
All of these would, of course, be
legitimate ways of thinking
about size of the industry.
Numbers of players would also
be relevant for example.
So there are many estimates
of size varying also by
sector and sub sector which
technologies or channels
we're talking about.
Are we thinking about revenues,
are thinking about
sales and so on?
What is clear by
a number of measures
and data sources here
from the KPMG Pulse of
FinTech report published in 2019
is that funding is
highly aggressive,
ongoing, active, M&A, mergers
and acquisitions that is,
in the FinTech space abound
and money is flowing
in from the roughly
$2 trillion of overhang
in the venture and
private equity industries
into this space.
As a subclass, payments
and remittances
technologically enabled,
which we call digital payments,
was the largest component
of transaction volume in
the FinTech subcategory with just
under $4 trillion worldwide.
As you can see from
the graph on the screen,
total investment activity
going back to 2013
here expressed quarter by
quarter has been
dramatically increasing.
Although we have seen
some volatility in
funding which, of course,
is related to funding
in general but
also targeting the space in 2016,
but generally overwhelmingly
season upward trend
that's both in the capital
invested read off
the left side of
the graph or by deal count
on the far right.
There has been in 2018 and 2019
a slight decrease in the number
of deals in FinTech.
However the general
trend seems to
have continued
although the space has
gotten very filled as
you must imagine
with FinTech deals.
Remember the aggregate number
of companies while
not being exactly the sum of
all total investment
activity counted by
numbers using the blue line
or the right axis.
But the number of deals funded
is and you can see it's on
the order of thousands.
Thousands of deals funded
and FinTech globally around
a 112 billion last year.